Language reference and fundamentals for file based programs (#46900)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/fundamentals/program-structure/index.md

ms.date: 06/20/2025
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "C# language, program structure"
---
# General Structure of a C# Program

C# programs consist of one or more files. Each file contains zero or more namespaces. A namespace contains types such as classes, structs, interfaces, enumerations, and delegates, or other namespaces. The following example is the skeleton of a C# program that contains all of these elements.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/toplevel-structure/Program.cs":::

The preceding example uses [*top-level statements*](top-level-statements.md) for the program's entry point. Only one file can have top-level statements. The program's entry point is the first text line of program text in that file. In this case, it's the `Console.WriteLine("Hello world!");`.
You can also create a static method named [`Main`](main-command-line.md) as the program's entry point, as shown in the following example:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/structure/Program.cs":::

In that case the program starts in the opening brace of `Main` method, which is `Console.WriteLine("Hello world!");`

## Building and running C# programs

> C# is a *compiled* language. In most C# programs, you use the [`dotnet build`](../../../core/tools/dotnet-build.md) command to compile a group of source files into a binary package. Then, you use the [`dotnet run`](../../../core/tools/dotnet-run.md) command to run the program. (You can simplify this process because `dotnet run` compiles the program before running it if necessary.) These tools support a rich language of configuration options and command line switches. The `dotnet` command line interpreter (CLI), which is included in the .NET SDK, provides many [tools](../../../core/tools/index.md) to generate and modify these files.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
C# is a *compiled* language. In most C# programs, you use the [`dotnet build`](../../../core/tools/dotnet-build.md) command to compile a group of source files into a binary package. Then, you use the [`dotnet run`](../../../core/tools/dotnet-run.md) command to run the program. (You can simplify this process because `dotnet run` compiles the program before running it if necessary.) These tools support a rich language of configuration options and command line switches. The `dotnet` command line interface (CLI), which is included in the .NET SDK, provides many [tools](../../../core/tools/index.md) to generate and modify these files.  
```

> Beginning with C# 14 and .NET 10, you can create *file based programs*, which simplifies building and running csharp programs. You use the `dotnet run` command to run a program contained in a single `*.cs` file. For example, you run the following snippet, when stored in the file `hello-world.cs`, by typing `dotnet run hello-world.cs`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Beginning with C# 14 and .NET 10, you can create *file based programs*, which simplifies building and running C# programs. You use the `dotnet run` command to run a program contained in a single `*.cs` file. For example, if the following snippet is stored in a file named `hello-world.cs`, you can run it by typing `dotnet run hello-world.cs`:
```

> Beginning with C# 14 and .NET 10, you can create *file based programs*, which simplifies building and running csharp programs. You use the `dotnet run` command to run a program contained in a single `*.cs` file. For example, you run the following snippet, when stored in the file `hello-world.cs`, by typing `dotnet run hello-world.cs`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beginning with C# 14 and .NET 10, you can create *file based programs*, which simplifies building and running C# programs. You use the `dotnet run` command to run a program contained in a single `*.cs` file. For example, you run the following snippet, when stored in the file `hello-world.cs`, by typing `dotnet run hello-world.cs`:
```
